1.
Title: Ursula K. Le Guin on myths

It’s hard to think of another living author who has written so well for so long in so many styles as Ursula K. Le Guin. 
Best known as a novelist of science fiction (“The Left Hand of Darkness”) and fantasy (“A Wizard of Earthsea”), 
Le Guin has also written award-winning short stories in numerous genres, literary criticism, poetry, a novel set in Rome in the age of “The Aeneid” (“Lavinia”), and angry, eloquent essays against Amazon.

So her book on writing – “Steering the Craft: A 21st Century Guide to Sailing the Sea of Story” – is not something any 
aspiring fiction writer should ignore. The book – significantly revised from its original 1998 edition – 
avoids laying down strict rules, but takes a back-to-basics approach to prose writing. Each chapter includes examples of 
good writing to emulate, including Tolkien and a tale from a Native American tribe of Oregon, but with emphasis on writers 
like Kipling, Dickens and Virginia Woolf. The book, in short, is both open and in some ways resolutely old-fashioned.

2. 
Title: In defense of persimmons

In this tale, I am the baby. Those whole, dried persimmons, smashed to sweet, soft, flat, powdery pucks, have been one of
 my favorite snacks for as long as I can recall. Once, unable to find them where I live in Louisville, Ky, I carried a box in my luggage 
 from an H-Mart in Austin, Texas, like precious cargo. I rationed those dozen to stretch for months — I’m down to my last three.


3. 
Title: Fairy tales, fantasy and dangerous female desire

The imperatives of literary fashion aren’t nearly as oppressive as they used to be, so in order to understand what it was like 
to be Angela Carter, writing in the 1970s and ’80s, we’ll have to use our imaginations. That’s fitting; the imagination was her kingdom.

She wrote, however, during a period of ascendant realism, a literary moment that was all restraint and strangled epiphanies arrived at on wall-to-wall carpeting, with prose that read like Hemingway boiled down to the bones. Carter produced the opposite: fiction that was lavishly fabulist and infinitely playful, with a crown jeweler’s style, precise but fully colored. Granted, hers was also a time when mandarin postmodern novelists experimented with the sort of pop and folk culture she embraced, but those were largely cerebral escapades. Carter’s fiction has blood in it — and on it, as well.

4. 
Title: A nation of truthers

That’s the core argument of “The United States of Paranoia: A Conspiracy,” a new cultural history by the Reason magazine editor. Walker’s book is a riposte of sorts to the most famous treatment of America’s suspicious fantasies, Richard Hofstadter’s “The Paranoid Style in American Politics,” an essay first published in 1964 and oft cited since. Walker calls Hofstadter’s essay “flawed but fascinating,” and gives Hofstadter credit for the canny observation that the people who battle conspiracies have a tendency to form organizations and initiatives that eerily resemble those of their alleged foes. (Joe McCarthy, meet Joseph Stalin; you two guys have a lot in common.) But where Walker feels Hofstadter went wrong is in his assertion that “political paranoia is 
‘the preferred style only of minority movements'” and that the style has “a greater affinity for bad causes than good.”

5. 
Title: A Grim Fairy Tale

So, it happened. Mythmaking beat math. Drama put data in its place. A candidate who styled himself a renegade outsider has become the forty-fifth president. It’s almost as though a humble serving girl were changed by the wave of a wand into a princess, or a stranger in bright rags put a pipe to his lips and played so wonderfully that all the children of the village . . . If a hallmark of enduring fairy tales and folktales is an outsized, vivid character who overcomes impossible odds, this is one that should endure.

6. 
Title: Here Are Ghosts

In the great cities we see so little of the world, we drift into our minority. In the little towns and villages there 
are no minorities; people are not numerous enough. You must see the world there, perforce. Every man is himself a class; 
every hour carries its new challenge. When you pass the inn at the end of the village you leave your favorite whimsy behind you; 
for you will meet no one who can share it. We listen to eloquent speaking, read books and write them, settle all the affairs of the universe. 
The dumb village multitudes pass on unchanging; the feel of the spade in the hand is no different for all our talk: good seasons and bad 
follow each other as of old. The dumb multitudes are no more concerned with us than is the old horse peering through the rusty gate of the village 
pound. The ancient map-makers wrote across unexplored regions, “Here are lions.” Across the villages of fishermen and turners of the earth,
 so different are these from us, we can write but one line that is certain, “Here are ghosts.”
 W. B. Yeats, The Celtic Twilight: Faerie and Folklore


7. 
Title: On Sardinia, the Magic of Heading Inland

After a few days on Sardinia’s Cala Liberotto bay, which I spent stretched out on a lounge chair, dozing off to the sounds of the 
lapping waters of the Mediterranean, I was jolted out of my sun-induced stupor by a sudden urge: I wanted to go somewhere, see things.

The impulse took me by surprise; a few days prior on the jittery flight from New York to Milan—my first big 
international flight post-COVID—I justified the trip by telling myself it’d be a low-key, socially-distant beach vacation. 
My boyfriend and I had rented a one-bedroom Airbnb on a relatively isolated part of the island, far removed from the 
hyped-up scene of Costa Smeralda. We’d rent a car, 
buy groceries, fall asleep before midnight. Sure, I’d never been one for a true beach vacation, 
but maybe the pandemic had changed that?


8. 
Title:  Naïve witchcraft beliefs in Acadian

The term ‘witch’ was used to refer to both males and females. However, the various narratives about witches 
show that the females were more numerous than the males. In Newfoundland, which was predominantly Protestants, 
the biblical reference to witches was used to denote the witch as an evil woman. Among the Acadians who are traditional 
Catholics, suspicion of witchcraft did not necessarily point to a woman.

Acadian legends that refer to people possessed evil powers; the persons sought help from the local priest. However, 
in the case of native witchcraft, they rarely consulted the priest.


9. 
Title: China in Ten Words

There’s no shortage of books promising to explain the most populous nation in the world to Western readers, 
fat, solemn tomes crammed with names, numbers, events and predictions. “China in Ten Words” by Yu Hua, on the other hand, 
is a slim volume, and a lot of it concerns Yu’s childhood in a backwater town during the Cultural Revolution. 
You’ll find a few statistics scattered over these pages, but far more of those peculiar modern yarns that reside in the netherland between gossip and news report. 
Nothing tells you more about a people than the stories they like to swap: the old peasant patriarch who could not countenance the price of a 
BMW 760Li until the dealer explained that it took two cows to supply the leather for each of its seats, the female Mao impersonator
 who spends hours perfecting her makeup and learning to walk in elevator shoes.

10. 
Title: The Character Remains

At fifty feet or so below the peak, in the midst of a rain of stones and scoriae, a large crater was vomiting forth 
torrents of lava. This fell back in a cascade of fire into the heart of the liquid mass. Situated as it was, this
 volcano lit the lower plain of the ocean like an immense torch, even to the uttermost limits of the horizon. I said that the 
 submarine crater threw forth lava but no flames—for the latter require the oxygen of the air to feed upon, and cannot be developed underwater. 
 But streams of lava, having within themselves the principle of their own incandescence, can attain a white heat, fight 
 vigorously against the liquid element, and by contact turn it into vapor.

11. 
Title: The Second Coming
So begins the intimate epic of Jolie and Ethan: child and adult, apart and together, different yet the same. 
Their journey toward each other will face opposition from grandparents and siblings and friends. It will strain 
connections with roommates and benefactors and a probation officer desperate to help. It will push Jolie out past her depth with a mysterious admirer, and Ethan in over his head with his first love, Jolie’s mom. But as father and daughter struggle to find their footing, new vistas beckon: from a surf break in mid-’90s Delaware to group therapy during the Great Recession, from an encampment 
at Occupy Wall Street to a HoJo on Maryland’s Eastern Shore, from the heights of the Brooklyn Bridge to horizons seldom seen in fiction.


12. 
Title: What the Germans Left Behind

The summer storms that rumbled through the valley were particularly intense at night. We would watch the raindrops drive into the darkness from the long rectangular window in my parents’ bedroom which, located at the front of the house, gave us a view of the line of trees separating our cottage from the one in front. The branches of the trees, two towering lindens and an elm, thrashed wildly as their trunks swayed perilously back, forth, sideways.

Gripping the windowsill as if she were clinging for purchase on a rolling ship, my great-aunt Palička would, without fail, make the dire prediction that we would surely all die in our beds that night.

‘It’s likely’, my grandmother Sasha would respond, her hands in my sister’s hair, stroking her head reassuringly. ‘I know a little boy who was crushed by a tree only last year’.

Their warnings did not lose their power through yearly repetition but rather accumulated it, growing more frightening with each reiteration. I would tuck myself into bed in my wood-panelled room and wait for the walls to splinter.
