1.
Title: Politico has figured out

Obama famously plays a lot of golf — mostly on weekends, and about everyday when he’s on vacation. That’s because golf is fun! This writer, too, plays golf. (I can’t afford it, but I’m not very good at managing money, so YOLO.) It’s a game that, once you get addicted to it, you try to play during every non-workday or moment of downtime you get, especially when you start showing signs of improvement. And if you’re the president, not only do you get to play without long waits or difficulty scheduling tee times, but you get to focus on something else with your buddies for a little while. People have hobbies and Barack Obama’s favorite hobby appears to be playing golf, the end.

Hirsch, however, thinks there’s a lot more to the president’s golfing than a mere enjoyment of the game. After establishing that Obama plays a lot of golf — again, it’s true! — we are gradually led to the following conclusions about his personality and his presidency

2.
Title: The "huntress" faces a gross backlash

Kendall Jones loves animals. Hunting them, killing them, posing for photographs with their lifeless bodies. And because Kendall Jones is also blond-haired, 19 years old and female, she is also great at getting attention. But is disliking Jones and her expensive, unusual hobby automatically sexist?

The self-described “huntress, conservationist, and sportsman looking to host a TV show in 2015” has gained herself a whole heap of it in the past few days for her passion – ever since Facebook deleted some of her photographs on the grounds of “reported content that promotes poaching of endangered species, the sale of animals for organized fight or content that includes extreme acts of animal abuse.” She also claims her Instagram account was removed and has launched a new one. 
Since June, a Change.org petition against her photos of “killing animals for fun” has garnered over 13,000 signatures.

3.

Title: Harriet the Spy

I don’t have any tomatoes and it’s a crisis. 

Well, that’s not exactly true — at least the former part isn’t. I’m specifically out of red globe tomatoes. In a frantic search through my kitchen and cupboards, I find several cans of Trader Joe’s tomato paste, and some cherry tomatoes are sitting on my counter. But neither of those will do. On a normal day, a tomatoless household wouldn’t be a problem. But in a grief-stricken panic, trying to use the 20 remaining minutes before a meeting to make myself a tomato sandwich for lunch in honor of Harriet M. Welsch, not having any juicy, red fruits on my counter is a disaster.

“Harriet the Spy” opened my world. It's unlike any other children’s movie I’ve seen, brutally honest in the way that so much media made for kids is not.

After hearing of actress and millennial icon Michelle Trachtenberg’s untimely passing Wednesday afternoon, a tomato sandwich was one of the first things that popped into my mind.

4.
Title: The Bizarre Relationship

It started out as a fairly typical office friendship: You ate lunch together and joked around during breaks. 
Maybe you bonded over a shared affinity for escape rooms (or board games or birding or some other slightly weird hobby). 
Over time, you became fluent in the nuances of each other’s workplace beefs. By now, you vent to each other so regularly that the routine frustrations of professional life have spawned a carousel of inside jokes that leavens the day-to-day. You chat about your lives outside work too. But a lot of times, you don’t have to talk at all; if you need to be rescued from a conversation with an overbearing co-worker, a pointed glance will do. You aren’t Jim and Pam, because there isn’t anything romantic between you, but you can kind of see why people might suspect there is.

5.
Title: It’s Okay to Start Small

In her debut memoir, All You Can Ever Know, Nicole Chung tells a complicated origin story, exploring the questions raised by the circumstances of her birth. 
Throughout her young life, people wondered out loud—often clumsily, sometimes cruelly—how a child of Korean descent came to be raised by white parents in small-town Oregon. Chung sometimes wondered, too. But there were limits to her curiosity. She already had one loving family, and it seemed either impossible or unnecessary to go looking for the strangers tied to her by blood. It wasn’t until she was in her late 20s, pregnant with a child of her own, that Chung became determined to go looking for her birth parents. 
That momentous decision sparked the journey of this book—an exacting, deeply personal inquiry into the mysteries of family, biology, and race.

6.

Title: The Rage of the Almost-Elite

The problem the New Class faces at this point is the psychological and social self-perceptions of a 
status group that is alienated (as we marxists say) from traditional labor by its semi-privileged upbringing.  
It is, for the moment, insistent not just on white-collar work as its birthright and unable to conceive of much else.  
It does not celebrate the dignity of labor; it conceived of itself as existing to regulate labor.  
So it has purified itself to the point that not just any white-collar work will do.  It has to be, as 
Michelle Obama instructed people in what now has to be seen as another era, virtuous non-profit or government work.  
Those attitudes are changing, but only slowly; the university 
pipelines are still full of people who cannot imagine themselves in any other kind of work, unless it means working for Apple or Google.

7.
Title: Holding up the rear
Lewis doesn’t want his real name used. He worries that describing his investigation 
into the plush world of high-end office furniture, conducted during working hours, 
might give the impression that he and his friends were slacking on the job. Now that he’s a 
freelancer he has his reputation to consider. It’s only after having detailed the grueling days and the 
nights spent curled up in a cubicle at his old workplace that Lewis is willing to admit that he and his
 co-workers needed a break. “When you’re working 12- to 14-hour days, you’re trying to break the flow. 
 You’ll build weird little abstract hobbies.”

 8.
Title: Why ambitious people have (unrelated) hobbies

Winston Churchill was a mediocre painter and a worse bricklayer, but to these two hobbies, the world owes a great debt.

“It is a pushing age,” Churchill wrote his mother as a young man, “and we must shove with the rest.” His ambition was legendary. Multiple times, he shoved his way to the top of British politics, when Britain was the world’s dominant power. Once he was there, he did not let up. During war-time, it was not uncommon
 for him to work 110-hour weeks. Between 1940 and 1943, he traveled something like 110,000 miles by air and sea and car. A bodyguard once said that Churchill kept “less schedule than a forest fire and had less peace than a hurricane.”

It’s this exhausting workload that is worth examination in a time of “millennial burnout,” and digital distraction. More and more people fear that taking their foot off the gas for even a second will only cause them to fall further and further behind in a rigged economy that cares little for individual happiness. Certainly, it’s something I’ve wrestled with as I look back on my very busy twenties (six books and three careers) and look forward towards my thirties with children.

 9.
Title: The Former Prince Andrew Never Should Have Forwarded Those Emails

At dawn today, that stupid and unethical decision—and many others like it—finally caught up with him. Police arrested Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor on the morning of his 66th birthday, on suspicion of misconduct in public office, and are now searching his homes. Prosecutors have not yet released specific charges, which are thought to relate to Andrew passing on sensitive government information to Epstein. The offense carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. His brother,
 King Charles III, was not officially informed in advance, but had signaled that the royal family would cooperate with any police inquiry.


 10.
Title: Sunday mornings coming down

It was late December, almost Christmas, and it was a time in my life when I had a job with no office hours and I could get up anytime I wanted, so every morning felt like Sunday morning, slow and hazy through the scrim of a Saturday night hangover. I was in love during at least some of that time with Harriet, or I thought I was anyway, and she was between jobs so we could get up at eleven, or noon, or whenever we wanted, and walk through the park, or go looking for Philip Roth, who lived in her neighborhood and was out on the streets around the same time we were every day. Philip Roth. 
There he was, head down, bent forward against a winter wind, thinking about Nathan Zuckerman.


 11.
Title: Across and down with a word wrangler


For some, a crossword is just a black-and-white squared grid; for others, it is a gymnasium, a treasure hunt, a refuge. Travelling across country lines, I called Paolo Pasco to discuss winning a recent puzzle tournament to get down to the nitty-gritty and examine the crossword lifestyle.  

A cruciverbalist ‘grand-master’, Pasco took the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament (ACPT) crown in April this year, after years of near-misses and “heart-breakingly close calls”. Describing the tournament as “punishing”, he warns, “you go insane, completing six crosswords on Saturday, needing to be both fast and perfect for each one”. Regardless, he loves the sport and the community behind it, which “brings him back each year”.

Freshly teenaged Pasco completed his first crossword on a sleepy road trip, and was quickly hooked on the game. He grew up on a strict puzzle diet, solving sudokus in crayon at knee height, but steered clear of the crossword as a child.

 12.
 Title: Tips and Tricks From a Crossword Prodigy

 If you’ve ever tussled with our daily mini crossword puzzles, you can most likely blame Paolo Pasco. The good news is that the constructor who stumped you is now the champion of the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament at the ripe old age of 23. The ACPT is the largest speed-solving tournament in the world, this year welcoming more than 800 competitors. The three finalists solve puzzles on a big whiteboard in front of a crowd; wins come down to literal seconds.

When I first met Paolo, he was 13 and already creating stellar grids as elegant as they were playful. These days, I rely on him as The Atlantic’s main crossword contributor. To put into perspective what a phenomenal speed-solver Paolo is: He solved the latest Inferno (our special magazine puzzle that gets more difficult as you descend into its depths) in one minute and 27 seconds. The average solve time for that puzzle is 16 minutes, 28 seconds. I spoke with Paolo recently about his win, his speed-solving tactics, and, inevitably, the 2024 Marvel masterpiece Madame Web.
