
Written in the wind
Jaipur, India

Our decision to come to India started in London at the studio of artist Hormazd Narielwalla. It was a cold and dreary London day and as we entered the studio we were both drawn to a 12-panel artwork covering one of its walls entitled The Pink City, inspired by Jaipur. The work was delicately created in shades of pink and marble paper, creating a representation of the Hawa Mahal, the city’s infamous Wind Palace. Thomas was sold, but I wasn’t immediately sure. Having travelled India more than any other country, I was more than a little apprehensive about whether the man I love was ready to cope with the country that I love. India is not always an easy destination to visit – especially for those who expect trains to run on time. 
Rajasthan is the heart of India with Jaipur as its capital, divided into the old city and new. The new city showcases where India is headed, with wide roads, perfectly manicured gardens and luxury hotels, constantly trying to maintain a veneer of order. In contrast, the old part of the city is fun, whimsical and somewhat like a crazy, hedonistic older brother. 

----

The mist, mystery, and mountains of Sikkim
by Mariellen Ward

While Gangtok is the capital city of Sikkim, I chose to go to Pelling because it is a small town surrounded by historic ruins, important monasteries, authentic villages and of course the mountains, especially Kanchendzonga, the world’s third highest. Sikkim seems to be an entirely mountainous state, and it is one of the smallest of India’s 28 states. It is also one of the newest. Until the mid-1970s, Sikkim was an independent mountain kingdom, ruled by a Buddhist King. How it came to be part of India is a controversial subject that still stirs up feelings. The book about the modern history of Sikkim and its annexation by India is called “Smash and Grab,” which gives you some idea about how some people think about it.

---
An Indian City Bursting With Action
Lucas Peterson
There’s a lot to be excited about in Chennai, capital of the state of Tamil Nadu in South India (and still sometimes referred to by its former name, Madras). While certainly crazy for movies, the city has an electricity and exuberance that extends beyond the cinematic. Call it youthful energy — the history of what we know as present-day Chennai extends back merely to the 1600s, compared to ancient cities like Delhi, which have existed for thousands of years. During a four-day trip in September, I found jaw-droppingly good food, beautiful houses of worship and a fantastic day trip. And, as always, I set out with the goal to get the best value for my money.

---

Exploring Kashmir, India's Most Misunderstood Region
Hanya Yanagihara

I remember the exact moment in Kashmir I knew I was in danger.

I was at a pashmina shop called Beigh in the capital city of Srinagar, in the back room of one of the region’s most renowned embroidery workshops. I was sitting on a leather sofa so deep and enveloping that it was like being nestled in the lap of a giant cat. Across from me, at a long, slablike table, sat two other shoppers: a fat woman in a shimmering kingfisher-blue sari, her plump wrists manacled with gold bangles, and her equally fat husband, who wore a black felt cowboy hat. The room was dim and windowless and warm. Not uncomfortably so, but in a slightly soporific, cosseting way, one that seemed calculated to remove the final, half-wrought defenses from someone—me, for whom being surrounded by embroidered fine-woven wool is a fight I usually don’t even try to win, as I know I won’t.

---

Living Landscapes Of Ladakh 
The Urge to Wander

We pass the spot where the river Zanskar merges with the Indus – Sindhu in the vernacular – the waterbody that lends its name to my country and my religion. Its signature jade is, most disappointingly, clouded by snow melt and post monsoon debris.

I am too anxious to stop for photos, however. There’s a tightness in my head that I’m not sure whether I am imagining. The anxiety doubles when I realise I am the only occupant in the hotel set in a 400 year old traditional house with a gurgling stream in the grounds and apples and apricots dropping from trees all around me.

I’d been told one full day would be plenty for acclimatisation. I’ve given myself two and I do nothing all of the first day except come down for my meals. The discomfort in my head keeps me awake all night and worrying about it just makes the discomfort worse.

---

36 Hours in Bangalore, India
By Erica Westly, The New York Times

It would be easy to spend an entire afternoon exploring the shops and temples of Malleswaram, but at some point, time must be set aside for dosas, savory crepes that south Indians enjoy at breakfast and as an afternoon snack. Sampige (pronounced som-pi-gay) Road, one of the neighborhood’s main streets, is near several great dosa options. The 63-year-old New Sri Sagar, commonly known as Central Tiffin Room is one of the most famous dosa places in Bangalore. The restaurant offers table service but no menus, so it’s best to stick with the classic order: a benne masala dosa — a potato-stuffed crepe coated in ghee — and a cup of frothy south Indian coffee (about 40 rupees).

---

A Maharaja Bows to the Present
By Bernard Weinraub; Nov. 22, 1973

“Sometimes one thinks of the past,” said the ailing Maharaja of Mysore in a dimly lit room piled high with books, magazines and phonograph records. “One thinks of the entertaining, of playing a role. It was quite pleasant, of course, but there's no sense lingering on the past, is there? You have to make the best of what's available now.”

Even after India gained independence in 1947 and most of the maharajas and other displaced princes joined the foreign service or went into Parliament or turned their palaces into hotels, they surged into Mysore each fall for the 10‐day dusserah festival, a wistful display of former princely power and a striking pageant.

Perhaps 30,000 people jammed the courtyard as the ocher‐colored palace—one of the biggest, in India—glittered. There were magicians and clowns and a royal elephant that knelt before his master, the Maharaja, who is deemed by many to be the reincarnation of Lord Vishnu.

---

British Fighter Jet Takes Unexpected Detour to India

A top-of-the-line British F-35B fighter jet recently became stranded at an airport in Kerala, in southern India, after a hiccup over the Arabian Sea — and has become something of a local celebrity.

As the British military works to find a way to bring it home, A.I.-generated images of the jet — an aircraft worth more than $100 million currently parked on the airport’s tarmac — have spread across India.

The region’s tourism agency has joined in, posting a fictitious five-star review from the plane on social media: “Kerala is such an amazing place, I don’t want to leave. Definitely recommend.”

The plane, which arrived at the airport in mid-June, may be grounded for a bit longer too, as British engineers scramble to figure out how to get it back to its home country.

===

Temples Where Gods Come to Life
Edward Wong, NYT

Male pilgrims draped in orange robes shuffled past us to stand in front of the lingam. Many were Shaivites, easily recognized by three white lines drawn on their foreheads. I saw them everywhere in Tamil Nadu, including at the Meenakshi-Sundareshwarar temple in Madurai, my final stop.

I stood by the bathing tank in the courtyard outside the Meenakshi shrine, watching as pilgrims dunked their heads or entire bodies into the water, a scene repeated at rivers, lakes and pools all across India. A massive, brightly painted gopura rose above each of the four entrances to the temple, the 12 towers visible for miles around. The tallest, above the south entrance, was more than 150 feet tall.

Madurai is one of the most ancient cities in India, so it is only fitting that at the center of its teeming bazaars stands what some call the most magnificent temple complex on the subcontinent. It is actually two temples joined, one dedicated to Meenakshi and the other to her husband, Sundareshwarar. Unlike many temples in India, the female god is the dominant one here.

===

The Success of Ordinary Indians
NYT

PONDICHERRY, India — I spent the start of this decade in the same place that I spent the start of the last: outside the town of Pondicherry, in the countryside, amid the sound of firecrackers and the glow of oil lamps from surrounding villages.

Apart from my location, though, little else remains the same. Over the last 10 years, the countryside has been transformed. Villages have become towns. Mud huts have given way to concrete structures. Fields have been replaced by shopping complexes.

This has been a momentous decade for India. Economically, in particular, the nation has made huge strides. Although its revitalization began in the 1980s and ’90s, the last decade has been marked by a noticeable acceleration of growth rates.

