====

Fancy a Kulfi? From Granita to Queso Helado
Smithsonian magazine


The colorful streets of Chandni Chowk, a shopping area in India’s Old Delhi, are filled with bustling shops, frenetic alleyways and delicious treats. Last spring, on a food tour through the area, I spent the afternoon sipping mango lassi from clay cups and nibbling on samosas, but it was the orange-flavored kulfi—a frozen dessert that’s both denser and creamier than traditional ice cream—that served as the perfect cool-down in Delhi’s sweltering heat.

Kulfi gets its name from the Persian word qulfi, which refers to the cone-shaped mold in which it’s traditionally made. The dish is believed to have originated during the 16th century with the Mughal dynasty, with royal kitchen workers using ice brought down from the Himalayas to whip up frozen delicacies by slow-cooking milk, sugar and flavorings like cardamom and pistachios for a rich, intensely flavored dessert that melts more slowly than ice cream due to its consistency. Today kulfi is a part of India’s national cuisine, as well as that of greater South Asia, including Pakistan.

===
The Unified Theory of Deliciousness
Chef David Chang | Wired

My first restaurant, Momofuku Noodle Bar, had an open kitchen. This wasn’t by choice—I didn’t have enough money or space to put it farther away from the diners. But cooking in front of my customers changed the way I look at food. In the early years, around 2004, we were improvising new recipes every day, and I could instantly tell what was working and what wasn’t by watching people eat. A great dish hits you like a Whip-It: There’s momentary elation, a brief ripple of pure pleasure in the spacetime continuum. That’s what I was chasing, that split second when someone tastes something so delicious that their conversation suddenly derails and they blurt out something guttural like they stubbed their toe.

===
The Burning Desire for Hot Chicken
Danny Chau | The Ringer

“There are photos on Yelp of people passed out on Prince’s tables trying to finish their food. Purcell once took a coworker to the restaurant for lunch. The woman behind the window shook her head. His coworker was visibly pregnant. ‘She can’t have hot chicken,’ the employee said. ‘She’ll have to come back after the baby is born.’ Of course, there are also tales of pregnant women who have asked their partners to fetch Prince’s hot chicken for takeout in hopes of expediting the delivering process. Pain is pain, I suppose.”

===


Lush Life Lahore
Haseeb Asif Asif

In the congested Saddar area of Karachi, on a busy street lined with restaurants and cafeterias, rests the Lucky Star Wineshop. It’s not advertised as a place of alcoholic purveyance, but it’s not exactly hidden. A man stumbles up the shop’s steps and passes an empty water bottle through a small, grated window in the wall. He demands, slurring, that he be given a “quarter” refill of whisky: a pawwa, as it’s known in Pakistan.

He also says he doesn’t have any money on him, but he promises to pay tomorrow. The window clerks try their best to send him away. After a while, he curses at them and produces two 100-rupee notes, shouting that he’ll be back for more later in the evening.

Another man walks up to the grated window. He’s visiting from Kerala, India, and he’s enamored by all the different colors Murree Beer comes in. “I wasn’t expecting such a selection,” he keeps laughing. He wants to try the white ones. Silver, the window clerk corrects him. They look white, he insists. The debate is resolved when he orders the light-blue cans instead; Murree Wheat.

===
My Wine Accumulation
By Navneet Alang

One bright, early summer morning, just after my parents had been bilked out of their life savings by a huckster who preyed on fellow Indian immigrants, I asked my mother for five dollars so that I could get pizza at school. Choking back tears, she said she couldn’t spare it. Though we had never been close to rich, this sort of privation was new. In the months that followed, as further investments went south in the real estate collapse of the early Nineties, calls from debt collectors became a regular feature of life, promising complete financial ruin. A slice of pizza became the least of our worries. Rather, worry became ever-present, a grey, enveloping pall, obscuring both the future and hope.

Thankfully, those twin engines of the ambitious middle class—privilege and perseverance—revved up, and my family was fine by the time the new millennium rolled around. What proved more difficult to shake, however, was that low hum of anxiety at never having enough. We would, and still do, enviously watch food or travel shows, marveling at the breezy, seemingly unthinking way in which the crisply dressed, often white hosts would talk of dumping entire bottles of good Shiraz into a beef stew. When you are brown immigrants running from the spectre of poverty, nothing holds more promise than the very things white sophisticates find too gauchely ordinary to covet: mahogany furniture, a house in the suburbs, a Mercedes in the driveway, and wine you could afford to waste—those were the alien images I wanted to make my own. Only in mimicking the colonizer can you say you have mastery over them, apparently.


===

Nestle's Half-Billion Dollar Noodle Debacle in India
Erika Fry | Fortune

What happens when a $100 billion global giant suddenly finds itself in a crisis—and everything it does to get out of it only sinks the company further into the morass? It’s an epic narrative of a powerful corporation brought low by an obscure food-safety agency in India and a handful of local government functionaries. And it’s a case study in irony about a company that, after a humiliating and existential scandal over infant formula, tried to reinvent itself as a paragon of corporate do-gooding and transparency—only to discover that no matter what positive, world-bettering things it did, it couldn't quite escape its tainted past.

===
Delusion at the Gastropub
Heather Havrilesky

It takes a lot of high-capitalist pixie dust to turn the basics of subsistence into coveted luxuries. The brazen marketing of designer water at $5 per bottle, flown in from Fiji or the Alps—or better yet, filled from a local municipal tap—may have been the first red flag, signaling the modern public’s staggering ability to suspend its disbelief, or simply to miss the central tenets of manufactured demand.

But if one trait characterizes Americans with lots of disposable income, it's their tireless compulsion to dispose of that income in brand new ways. The more pedestrian the product in question, the greater its seeming potential to evoke untold volumes of feeling and meaning. A few centuries into the future, inhabitants of a ravaged globe may look back on this time as the crucial moment at which delusional fervor around unremarkable, overpriced things reached its apex.

===
The Noma Way
By Tienlon Ho

On the first day of 2016, chef René Redzepi walked into his new kitchen in a construction zone at the end of Sydney’s Barangaroo pier. He arrived at 1 p.m., later than planned, because his wife and two of their three daughters had fevers, and then he had no idea how to catch a water taxi across the harbor from his temporary home in Birchgrove. He was scruffy, wearing a T-shirt, dark jeans, and battered flip-flops, and tan from three weeks in Mexico, where he hadn’t touched a stove. (“The ‘mamás’ cook for us there — best cooks in the world,” said one of the best cooks in the world.) He had recharged on their slow-simmered mole and roadside tacos, and now he was bristling with energy.

===

The Noma Way -part 2 
By Tienlon Ho
They tasted a bunya nut, a huge cone containing juicy pine nuts the size of oysters that the Aborigines in eastern Australia would eat raw or roasted, pound into meal and bake, or bury in mud for months until pungent and ripe. Redzepi thought they should try fermenting theirs in seawater. There were cobalt-blue seeds that no one knew the name of that looked like alien river rocks. Clugston cracked one open with a vise, and it tasted like a coconut from Mars.

“Everything is so completely new! We should read up on some of these so we don’t end up with holes in our stomachs.”
“Everything is so completely new!” Redzepi said. “We should read up on some of these so we don’t end up with holes in our stomachs.”

Redzepi also continued sampling the test-kitchen projects. The mountain pepper berries had turned out particularly astounding, like gently spicy blueberries. “Picture that as a coarse paste, brushed on a pancake. You lift it up,” he said, miming. Mikkola suggested a drop of reduced celery juice to round out the flavor further. “Oh, I can see it, Chef,” Redzepi said.

