1.
Title: My dirty secret writing life


I felt my stomach twist in anger and annoyance. No, I don’t write fan fiction. As a ghostwriter for an entertainment company that produced book and television series for teens and young adults, I wrote 10 YA novels during a five-year period. My books have been translated into 13 languages, shown up on bestseller lists, and spawned mega-successful television shows (that were already in production before I came on and have little to do with the novels themselves). Because of an ironclad contract, I can’t reveal the actual names of the series, but trust me when I say you’ve heard of them.

And yes, I use the phrase my books, even though it’s not correct. But I can’t help feeling proprietary. After all, I spent years with these characters, waking up in the middle of the night with a string of dialogue or a plot twist, giving them back stories and passions and dislikes. But at the end of the day, it’s like being a nanny — you can’t get too close. Because when all is said and done, your work belongs to the publisher, the packaging company, the “real” writer. Anyone but you.

2.
Title: Writers who don’t read

I have always loved to read. A day that permits me an hour of reading before having to get out of bed perks 
me up better than coffee. I also consider myself a writer. I’ve been kept awake at night thinking about and 
working on a story and found myself with finished pieces that I can’t recall how they actually took shape; 
I’ve also struggled and felt like giving up. While the moments of magic happen, writing, for me, is hard work and at times incredibly frustrating.

Reading, on the other hand, is not a struggle. It is an utter pleasure. And it is in this pleasure 
where I first took up the challenge of writing, in trying to emulate the wordsmiths whose stories possessed me so completely that the rest of the world would fade away so long as I kept turning the pages and allowed their words to fuel my imagination. 

3.
Title: Story writers tell all

Not long after the announcement that Alice Munro had won this year’s Nobel Prize in Literature, there came the tidbit of news that an editor at Knopf had rejected Munro’s first book of stories partly on the basis of her chosen form. “There’s no question that the lady can write but it’s also clear she is primarily a short story writer,” wrote the editor, in 1971.

But the collection was eventually published, as were Munro’s subsequent 13: Her subtle, formally bold stories have reached an increasingly broad audience in the past 40 years. In this interview, I talked to four young writers with recently published collections that share Munro’s boldness and subtlety: Kelly Luce (“Three Scenarios in Which Hana Sasaki Grows a Tail”), Nina McConigley (“Cowboys and East Indians”), Laura van den Berg (“The Isle of Youth”) and Claire Vaye Watkins (“Battleborn”). You’ll want to read their stories now; you may well want to read them 40 years from now.


4.
Title:  Learn how to become a better writer

This bundle includes nine comprehensive courses that show you how to be a more clear and effective writer — and organize your thoughts so that you can write faster than ever. From fiction to nonfiction, business writing to freelance, you’ll learn how to set good habits, be productive and produce high-quality writing that immediately hooks your audience.

Improve your paragraph writing by following step-by-step guidance, leverage pre-writing skills such as brainstorming and research, and learn to apply the important principles of coherence and proofreading into your work. By the end of the bundle, you’ll have mastered a wide range of important techniques and styles — and gain a better understanding of traditional and digital publishing.

5.
Title: A Conversation with Donald Hall

Donald Hall is staggeringly prolific: he has produced twelve books of verse, four plays, twenty-two books of prose (including children's books, 
collected essays and short stories, literary criticism, textbooks, and more), and has been published regularly in such publications as The Atlantic Monthly 
and The New Yorker. Praise for Hall's work piles up almost as fast as the work itself -- he is New Hampshire's Poet Laureate, and has won, among other awards, the 
National Book Critics Circle Award, a Caldecott Medal, the Los Angeles Times Book Prize in Poetry, the Lenore Marshall Award, the Frost Medal from the 
Poetry Society of America, and the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize from the American Council for the Arts. Hall was married to 
the poet Jane Kenyon until her death, from leukemia, in 1995. His latest collection of poems, The Old Life, was published in June, 1996.


6.
Title: A Window To The World

Some writers begin to write with talent, quickly earn a reputation among readers and critics, 
and then are suddenly silenced forever. We had two such men at the Yiddish Writers’ Club in Warsaw. 
One, Menahem Roshbom, had managed, before he was thirty, to publish three novels. The other, Zimmel Hesheles, 
had at the age of twenty-three written one long poem. Both got enthusiastic reviews in the Yiddish press. 
But then, as the saying goes, their literary wombs closed up and never opened again.

7.
Title: On Writing Habits And Rituals

Writing is, of course, a process and it's one that every writer approaches in a different way. Some are selective about their music choice, others about the time of day during which they write. Some require coffee to get going, 
while others need a walk to combat writer's block. There's no right or wrong way to write, there's only the way that works best for you. But a good way to determine that is through learning what works best for others.

So, ahead, we asked 15 authors to find out how they manage to get words onto the page. 
Maybe their habits and rituals will spark inspiration or guidance for your own creative endeavors. 
Hopefully, it'll at least give you insight as to how to get started. Because sometimes that can be the hardest part.


8.

Title: Subject matter matters
I feel like I’m bordering on saying something sacrilegious here, but here it goes: There’s a 
common strain of thinking among writers, particularly literary writers and the institutions that foster them (conference/colonies/workshops), that insists a book is only as good as its writing. I subscribe wholeheartedly to this belief and have defended it to both students and friends. Every one of my favorite books is a little case study in this — a subject that I knew little about or could care less for (or, worse, assumed I knew very well) that on the page came vividly, mind-alteringly alive. They’re books that transcend their subjects and they do this, always, through the spell of the language. Trying to shortcut that work by choosing a subject that is already salacious or provocative or easy seems to me like a cynical move that underestimates the reader, or is just kind of lazy. Most of the time subject matter finds you, not the other way around. It’s what fascinates or angers 
or scares you, it’s a deeply internal (and unteachable) part of writing that seems less of a choice than a discovery.

9.
Title:  A writers guide to just getting on with it

"when I am working I write in a kind of trance, longhand, in these several copybooks. I write in the morning because one 
is nearer to the unconscious, the source of inspiration. I never work at night because by then the shackles of the day are around me, what James Stephens (author of The Crock of Gold) called “That flat, dull catalogue of dreary things that fasten themselves to my wings,” and I don’t sit down three hundred and sixty-five days a year because I’m not that kind of writer. I wish I were! 

I get up in the morning, have a cup of tea, and come into this room to work. I never go out to lunch, never, but I stop around one or two and spend the rest of the afternoon attending to mundane things. In the evening I might read or go out to a play or a film, or see my sons.”


10.
Title: Neglecting to Read
Writing for a living without regularly picking up new books, articles, or other content is like being a professional chef who never tastes anyone else’s food. To hone your skills, you need to sample what’s out there.

Exposing yourself to great writing helps you find new rhetorical techniques, strategies, and effective turns of phrase. It also sharpens your “ear” for rhythm and flow.

Nothing makes or breaks a piece like good rhythm. You might have compelling ideas and interesting quotes, but clunky sentences or poorly constructed paragraphs will doom your work. It’s nearly impossible to learn rhythm by taking a course or reading a manual. Most writers acquire this skill by absorbing as much writing as they can.


11.
Title: Cal Newport on Writing Productivity

“Deep work is a type of effort where you're giving full concentration without distraction on something 
cognitively demanding. The opposite of deep work (non-deep work) is where either the work is easier, 
or your mind wanders. You’re working on it, but you're also checking something else. You're thinking about the book chapter, but you're also looking at your phone or jumping over to see what's happening on email. 
I call that shallow work. What defines deep work is difficulty and the 
fact that you're executing it without any of those cognitive context shifts.”

12.
Title: Writing and the Creative Life
Most writers spend countless hours brainstorming characters and plot, and they even write page after page that they know they’ll never include in the book. They do this because they know that ideas need time to develop. We tend to freeze up when it’s time to get started because we know that our ideas aren’t perfect and what we produce might not be any good. But how can you ever produce something great if you don’t get started and give your ideas time to evolve? Author Jodi Picoult summarized the importance of avoiding perfectionism perfectly: “You can edit a bad page, but you can’t edit a blank page.”



