Title: Chardon, Ohio School Shooting

here’s one high school in Chardon, a town of about five thousand people deep in 
northeast Ohio's snow belt. Living in Chardon is like living in a snow globe, 
one resident told me. It was early May the first time I visited, and it had just 
snowed again. An electronic bulletin board in the town square announced the 
city’s annual snowfall total, an impressive 128.1 inches. There’s a picturesque 
nineteenth-century town square, home to a maple syrup festival and a bathtub race, 
in which citizens push wheeled cast-iron tubs down the town’s Main Street. There 
are antiques shops and a stylish coffeehouse with framed homilies on gratitude and
 prayer in the bathroom. One day I caught a middle school drama group in the square, 
 performing skits designed to promote good values. One centered on how Humpty Dumpty 
 should have taken responsibility for his own fall.

====


Frank Sinatra Has a Cold
Esquire, April 1966

FRANK SINATRA, holding a glass of bourbon in one hand and a 
cigarette in the other, stood in a dark corner of the bar between two attractive but 
fading blondes who sat waiting for him to say something. But he said nothing; he had 
been silent during much of the evening, except now in this private club in Beverly Hills 
he seemed even more distant, staring out through the smoke and semidarkness into a large 
room beyond the bar where dozens of young couples sat huddled around small tables or 
twisted in the center of the floor to the clamorous clang of folk-rock music blaring 
from the stereo. The two blondes knew, as did Sinatra's four male friends who stood 
nearby, that it was a bad idea to force conversation upon him when he was in this mood 
of sullen silence, a mood that had hardly been uncommon 
during this first week of November, a month before his fiftieth birthday.

====
Frank Sinatra Has a Cold - 2
Esquire, April 1966
Brad Dexter has appeared in several films and television shows, displaying fine talent as a 
character actor, but in Beverly Hills he is equally known for the role he played in Hawaii 
two years ago when he swam a few hundred yards and risked his life to save Sinatra from 
drowning in a riptide. Since then Dexter has been one of Sinatra's constant companions and
has been made a producer in Sinatra's film company. He occupies a plush office near Sinatra's 
executive suite. He is endlessly searching for literary properties that might be converted 
into new starring roles for Sinatra. Whenever he is among strangers with Sinatra he worries 
 because he knows that Sinatra brings out the best and worst in people--some men will become 
 aggressive, some women will become seductive, others will stand around skeptically appraising 
 him, the scene will be somehow intoxicated by his mere presence, and maybe Sinatra himself, 
 if feeling as badly as he was tonight, might become intolerant or tense, and then: headlines. 
So Brad Dexter tries to anticipate danger and warn Sinatra in advance. He confesses to feeling 
very protective of Sinatra, admitting in a recent moment of self-revelation: "I'd kill for him."


=====

Your Lifestyle Has Already Been Designed

Since the moment I was offered the job, I’ve been markedly more careless with my money. Not stupid, just a little quick to pull out my wallet. As a small example, I’m buying expensive coffees again, even though they aren’t nearly as good as New Zealand’s exceptional flat whites, and I don’t get to savor the experience of drinking them on a sunny café patio. When I was away these purchases were less off-handed, and I enjoyed them more.

I’m not talking about big, extravagant purchases. I’m talking about small-scale, casual, promiscuous spending on stuff that doesn’t really add a whole lot to my life. And I won’t actually get paid for another two weeks.

=====

Your Lifestyle Has Already Been Designed

In the documentary The Corporation, a marketing psychologist discussed one 
of the methods she used to increase sales. Her staff carried out a study on what 
effect the nagging of children had on their parents’ likelihood of buying a toy for them. 
They found out that 20% to 40% of the purchases of their toys would not have occurred 
if the child didn’t nag its parents. One in four visits to theme parks would not have taken 
place. They used these studies to market their products directly to children, encouraging them to
 nag their parents to buy.